In
modern JavaScript, if you want to have a function with a varying number of parameters
you can use the rest operator. Let me show you how that
works. So here we modify the declaration of this function.
Add a parameter, let's call it args, and then prefix it
with ... This is what we call the rest
operator. Now don't confuse this with the spread operator, because
spread operator looks exactly the same. Earlier we used the spread
operator with arrays. So with the spread operator we can spread
an array which basically means take in it's individual elements.
But when we use this along with the parameter of a function,
you refer to this as the rest operator. And you will know why
this is called rest in a second. So, let's see how the
rest operator works. I'm going to delete all this code. And simply
do a console.log of args. So here we
call in this function with 6 arguments, save the changes,
now here on the console, you can see args is an array
of 6 elements. This is a real array. Note that if I remove
these three dots, that basically means this function has a single parameter
called args. So when I save the changes, instead of
this array you're going to see one, because the first argument
passing through this function is 1. Save the changes, you get 1.
So here's the lesson. When we apply the rest operator
to a parameter of a function, we can pass a varying number of
arguments and the rest operator will take all of them and
put them in an array. Now if you want to get the sum of all the
numbers in an array, we can use the reduce method. You learn about that in
the section about arrays. So args is an array, we can
call the reduce method and pass an arrow function here.
A and b, goes to a
plus b. You've done this before, right? So, you'd simply return
the result. Save the changes, and we get
25. So you see in modern JavaScript we can achieve the same
functionality with less code. Instead of defining a
total variable, setting it to 0, and then looping over
the arguments object can have 1 line of code that gives us the
same thing. This is more elegant and more professional. Now let's
take this example to the next level. Imagine we're going to use this function
to calculate the total costs of items in a shopping cart.
Here, let's say we want to have a discount factor,
so I'm going to add a parameter here, discount,
and then rename args to let's say
prices. So we're passing the price of all the items,
in a shopping cart, now let's change line 8 where
we call the sum function, let's say we're going to pass
0.1 or 10% for the discount, and
we have two products in our shopping cart, we have prices 20
and 30 dollars. So here, instead of returning
the sum of all the items in the prices array,
we're going to store the sum here, in total we don't
need this anymore. And then we want to return total
times 1 - discount.
So if discount is 0.1 subtract it from
1, we get 0.9. Then we multiply it by the total
and this will return the final price after the discount
is applied. Save the changes, so we get 45.
Now let me show you something, I'm going to add 1 parameter
after prices. Let's call that some
Value. Now on line 7 where we call this function,
let's pass a new value like 1, save the changes,
we get this error. Rest parameter must be last
formal paramter. So we cannot have a parameter after
using the rest operator so here prices is
the rest parameter, so it should be the last parameter in the function.
Let's remove this and this is the reason
we call the rest. Because we can have 0 or more
parameters before this, in this case we have discount, so we have discount
and the rest of the parameters, or the rest of the arguments that have
passed to this function. That's the reason this operator is called the rest
operator.